stressful. It's stressful lifting
heavy, but of course I can do it.
Deadlifts is what makes your back strong
if it's done well. So, I entirely and
wholeheartedly disagree with the
statement that deadlifts are bad for
your back. Having a weak back is bad for
your
back. Today, we're squatting
and we're doing my heavy squat day,
which is going to be pause squats. I
have two numbers in mind. I'm only going
to do one top set of two reps. I have
two numbers in mind that are a
progression from last week. One is 265
because I did 260 last week for a
double. And then I look at it and I
think is 265 even a
number or is 270? Do you know what I'm
saying? So 270 equals five reps. Anyway,
I will use my last warm-up set to
determine what that's going to be. And
then the next thing we need to consider
is this is week four of my program. So
what I like to do on week four of my
programs is del lo very very low volume
back down work if I do any back down
work at all and that is in aid of
somewhat of a del lo. So my de lo
strategy is to maintain intensity but
reduce volume. So that's going to allow
some type of a recovery. Um because a
lot of the times we are fatigued because
of the accumulation of volume. And the
reason why I want to give myself a bit
of a de lo is so that this Saturday,
which is week four of my deadlift block,
I can come in for a heavy deadlift. So,
the plan for deadlifts was to finish on
300s. Um, but then I thought, you know,
maybe I'll, if it's there, I might push
for my goal, my short-term goal, which
is 310 kg, and just do one set of one
before I fly out to Perth for my next
seminar. So, that's what this week is.
It's low volume, but still quite heavy.
So today's weight I'm doing pause squats
either 265 or 270.
Um 265 was on the program because last
week was 260 and this week the logical
progression was just 5 kilos up. But
then I think 270 is a lot nicer. That's
five reds. That's nice and clean. So my
ego may get the better of me today. Five
reds for two looks better than four reds
and a blue and a silver clip.
first warm-up set, it's always the
shoulders that need warming up. So,
you'll probably notice for me, I have
very stiff shoulders. I've spoken about
this before, but if you're new here, my
shoulders very, very, very stiff. And
that came
from years and years of benching at a
high level, especially two days ago. My
last session was a heavy bench press.
and my shoulders are still a little bit
tight. So, I like to spend time warming
up. But you see how I hold the bar on my
first set out here on the collars, but
then I'll bring them in. And then
that'll be my first set when I start
adding weight. It'll be like around
here. And then I like to kind of bring
them in, bring them in, bring them in to
my top set. The rule is to grab the
barbell as close as your shoulder
mobility
allows. But I'll take a while to warm
up. I'm going to do a few sets on this
just to really really warm up. So that's
my goal with my low volume day is spend
more time on the warm-ups so that I feel
really really comfortable coming into
that top
set like a welloiled
machine. I shouldn't have put my belt on
for this. I just keep my equipment on.
That's restricting me from hitting my
depth for this empty barbell. And I
should
have I don't know if you saw the depth,
but
[Applause]
couple more sets of that. 25 kg. So 12
and a half each side, which is red. So
that's the first weight will be. You
know, this is empty barbell. And then
I'll do a red on each side. So, it's 70.
And then I'll jump 25 kg at a time. 95,
120,
145,
170, 195, 220,
245,
270. I like how we just made our mind up
and we're going for 270 now.
Anyway, stressful. It's stressful
lifting
heavy, but of course I can do
it. Okay, let's talk about equipment.
Knee sleeves. My last squat session, I
didn't use these. These are my very
stiff sleeves. I get I don't know a lot
out of them. But my last squat session,
I tried to see if I could hit my my
program numbers with my soft knee
sleeves, and I was able to. So, how much
do I actually get out of them? I don't
know. Definitely something, but not
much. You need to be strong for
carryover from any equipment that you
use. But either way, these my stiff knee
sleeves, which I use for my strong squat
days. My belt, this wasn't on. So, it
was on my waist, but it wasn't tightened
for that set. And this is a Pioneer
belt. 10 mm lever belt. If you get the
option to decide between a 10 mil or a
13 mil, my recommendation is 10 mil. The
10 people want 13 mil because they want
to be stronger and they want the belt to
be stiffer and max out on their
equipment. I don't believe that the 13
mil is actually stronger than a 10 mil,
but it is heavier and it is thicker and
it's more uncomfortable. Why? 10 mil
does the job and it's more comfortable
and lighter and all the good stuff. Next
up, wrist wraps. For a low bar squat,
for a high bar squat, I don't think you
need wrist wraps. But for a low bar
squat, when the barbells lower on your
back, it can get cause discomfort on
your wrists and your elbows and your
shoulders. And go and have a look at the
best squatters in the world. Majority of
them, I can't think of any that don't.
At the highest level, wear wrist wraps.
So, if you're doing low bar squats and
you're wondering why your wrists hurt,
yeah, it's because it's strain on the
wrist. There is weight being placed on
your wrists and use wrist wraps. So,
that's the equipment check for the
day. Shoes. A lot of people comment on
my shoes. These are flat sold shoes.
They're my boxing shoes. I just figured
that they were very comfortable to box
in and flat sold. So, I thought I'm
going to give them a try for my squat
day. And it just so happened that they
were very comfortable for my squat
session. So, I've got two types of
footwear for squats. Flat sold or
elevated heels. And I use my elevated
heels when I'm trying to do like a high
bar squat or a front squat or a
bodybuilding squat to build quads. But
when I'm trying to lift the heaviest
weight, flat sold is my preference. Not
for everyone. So some people might say,
"What if I what if I wear heels for my
low bar squats?" That's great. I
recommend if you can't achieve bottom
position, if you lack the mobility to
hit depth with flats, then use the
heels. One more set. Empty bar. I put
the belts on again. I shouldn't have.
[Applause]
Okay. I'm going to teach you how I
perform a low bar squat. And why should
you listen to me? Great question. Well,
I'll tell you who I learned from. Eric
Liybridge, who is the owner of a 482 kg
squat at 140 kg body weight. So he was
when he taught me, he was number one on
the planet in the 140 weight class. And
when the best guy in the world teaches
you how to do it, you kind of listen,
right? And I learned a lot from him and
his dad, Ernie Senior about how to train
in general. So not just about the squat,
but absolutely the squat technique. I'd
say that that's definitely their
specialty. And yeah, these are the
techniques that they taught me. So the
first thing that I say is hands as close
as shoulder mobility allows. And you
look at me and you say, "Well, why don't
you hold it close?" because this is what
my shoulder mobility allows. I have very
tight, immobile shoulders. And you'll
find that's the same with a lot of super
strong guys. They use these types of
racks where you can hold it on the out
hold the barbell on the outside of the
rack. So most people in commercial gyms
don't get access to that. So the racks
are wider and you only have access to
holding the bar a little bit closer. But
for me, I like to use this squat rack.
So a lot of people get upset with me
because they think this is a flimsy
squat rack. This is my favorite because
it allows me to position the handles. So
when I hold the bar, I'm kind of here
and my wrists hit against it. So this is
what you see in powerlifting
competition. So this is the combo
rack. So
here, so that's that's racks in. And if
I was to use this this rack, these
uprights come in on an angle. They come
in on an angle. And that kind of this is
a bit too wide. That's I can have that a
little bit closer. So when I grab the
barbell on this, it it bumps into my
arms, my forearms, and I don't get the
right
position. So that's why I don't like So
this is the comp setup. This is not
bolted into the ground. And I don't
believe you need it bolted into the
ground. When you rack the weight, when
you rack the weight, the way that I like
to teach it is to kind of walk it in.
See how that lifts? That's safe. Once it
drops, it's in. So, I think that's even
safer than a rack that's bolted into the
floor. Because when it's bolted into the
floor, imagine this is the rack here.
So, this this pole here, you know, if I
was walking a barbell with a heavy
weight into a into a rack that's bolted
into the floor, you it can bounce off it
because the rack doesn't move, you move.
So, that's why I think this is actually
a safety feature, the flexibility of
this machine. So, when you're
re-rackcking a weight, I don't teach
that you should place it back on the
hooks.
That's where people stuff up. I say walk
it straight through to the uprightes.
Boom. And then slide it down. That's the
safest way of doing it. Anyway, so this
is my squat rack that I use. It is a
Leco, so it's very good quality, but at
the same time, it's good enough quality
for what I'm doing. These can hold a lot
of weight. And that's my squat position.
So, here's the technique. Grab the bar
as close as your shoulder mobility
allows. For most people, it's not out
here. For me, it is because I can't go
closer than that. My shoulders are super
tight. For some people, they hold it
here. That's as close as their shoulder
mobility allows. It would be lovely if I
could as well, but I just cannot. So,
anyway, so this is me. Close shoulder
mobility allows. Then from here, I place
the barbell. So, this is a a low bar
squat. I place the barbell on my rear
delts. So, high bar squat is upper traps
and that's rear delts. So, check that
out. That's my low bar squat position,
which is on my rear
delts. Big breath.
The next thing I do, you can't really
see much cuz there's very little
movement in my shoulders. The cue that I
like to give is elbows back and down.
It's not elbows back here and it's not
elbows down here. A lot of people are
different. Some people do pure elbows
back. Some people do pure elbows down. I
like elbows back and down. The elbows
back Q is midback strength. The elbows
down Q is how you get the lats on and
that's entire back strength. So that's
my strongest way of positioning my upper
back for a strong low bar squat. Hands
close, place it on wherever it is, high
bar and low bar. It's the same cues.
Hands close and elbows back and down.
And that's upper back tension. I'm going
to do another set of
this pre-workout. Long black and honey.
Do you like it? Are you on it yet?
Okay, so now that we've got the upper
back positioning done, let's talk about
the next cues, which
is walking this out. Okay, look at my
feet. I don't just, you know, stagger my
stance and just rack it. However, I'm
set and braced strong. Feet close
together. Big
breath. [__] this rack's too low. I was
wondering why am I crouching down too
far. Let's reset that. So, what you want
with the rack
height
is you'd rather it to be a little bit
too low than too high, right? You don't
want to be tippy toeing that weight
down. Ah, see this is where I want your
help. Thank you, brother. I mean, this
is what I'm fearing right now. I
think this is if anything I'd say it's
probably a little bit too high because
it's perfect with a light weight, but
then as you get heavier and heavier,
like especially when I get to like 270
kg today, when I get to my top weight,
it's going to squash my spine down.
Let's
see. Let's
see. Now, this is the right height.
Okay, three steps back. Okay, I'll
explain why in a moment. Okay, looking
straight ahead. The body follows the
eyes. Some people look down. It's not a
dealbreaker if that's you, but my
preference when you're lifting heavy
heavy weight, look straight ahead. This
is about balance, not about maintaining
a neutral spine or or anything like
that. Balance. Look straight ahead. The
body follows the eyes. Big breath to
brace. So, why three steps? It doesn't
matter as much when the racks are close
together like this. But the reason why
you do three steps, so obviously the the
fewer amount of steps you take, the
better. But what's so why not two steps?
Well, the first step is about clearing
the rack. So if you were to go from here
to two steps, you'd have to go side,
right? The problem with side is bang,
you're going to hit the plate on that
rack. Here, I won't because the racks
are close together. So I could really
take two steps, but it's just my my
routine that I've had from forever,
right? So the first step is to clear the
rack and that's so with feet close you
go straight back. If your feet are wide
when you unrackck when you lift one leg
all of the balance goes to the other and
if your feet are too wide you have to
shift over so that that's in the center
of your base that's the center of your
base of support right and when I do that
shift that's going to hit the bar. So
when my feet are close when I lift one
foot up that there's not a huge shift.
So the idea up first step is back. Now
we've cleared the rack. Then we go side,
right? Practice that from the empty bar.
A lot of people when they get to their
top weight, they get very shaky. Myself
included. It's hard cuz you you don't
get a huge amount of practice at your
one rep max loads, right? But if you
practice it from the empty barbell all
the way up, you're a lot more familiar
with the positioning. So ideally, this
is what I want to do on my top weight is
the same thing that I'm doing here. And
I'm going to show you again. One step
back side without having to look at my
feet. Okay? Okay. So, let's practice it
again. Feet close. So, under my hips.
Big breath to
brace. One step back. Side. Side
in. Some people don't do squats and
deadlift because they're scared of
hurting themselves.
Yeah, I've heard that before. Deadlifts
are bad. You squats are bad. I disagree.
And I think there's ways of doing it
where it's not only that it won't hurt
you, that that's the actual medicine
that you need to rehabilitate you. A
squat pattern and a bend pattern are
very commonly used movement patterns in
day-to-day life. So having weak bend
pattern, weak squat pattern is not
setting you up well for daily tasks. Of
course, daily tasks don't involve 270 kg
squats. So context matters. You know,
I'm squatting not just so I can survive
daily tasks. I'm squatting for
performance, right? But you know, the
people that squat for performance aren't
the ones that kind of complain about
whether they're good or bad for
injuries. It's usually the people like
physiotherapists or people that don't
train. They say, "I don't want to do
this movement, right?" So, so addressing
that, not everyone needs to squat double
body weight or I'm going to be doing a
lot more than double body weight. But to
have strength in your squat pattern,
basic strength in your squat pattern is
pretty functional. And what's even more
functional is strength in your bend
pattern. So that's an even more used
movement pattern from day-to-day tasks.
Like the amount of times you need to
bend over and pick things up every day,
it's you'll be surprised. It's a lot.
And if you have a weak back, like that's
the problem. Weak back is the source of
injury, not deadlifts. Deadlifts is what
makes your back strong if it's done
well. So I entirely and wholeheartedly
disagree with the statement that
deadlifts are bad for your back. Having
a weak back is bad for your
back. Okay, next one.
95. We're going to do one rep all the
way up. And while I'm only warming up,
I'll give you some technique pointers.
Hands close, barbell on, rear delts,
elbows back and down, feet under the
bar, big breath to brace, and then three
steps. One straight back, side standing
in your comfortable stance, looking
straight ahead. Take a big breath to
brace. So my chest doesn't lift up here.
It's guts. Right. And I push into the
belt 360°. Ribs
down when I squat. So I look at my
stance. I'm quite wide and I've
developed strength with that width. A
lot of people say, "Oh, wide squat is
better because my favorite lifter uses a
wide stance in competition.
Quite often your favorite lifter has
been doing it for a long time and
they've developed strength surrounding
that structure. So wide stance is just
the same as a wide grip bench press.
It's problematic if it's weak. So the
best way to build, you know, tolerance
to wide grip or wide stance is to start
a little bit narrower. So my
recommendation for a start point for
figuring out your squat stance. Everyone
is different with squat stance. I like
to say feet just outside of hipwidth,
toes pointed very slightly outwards. And
it's not just about there's your stance,
go down and up. It's about what you do
with your legs when you go down. So what
I like to do is think about feet into
the ground and grab onto the floor with
my feet and screw
externally. Okay? So people say spread
the floor. That's another cue that I
like to use. Spread the floor. What I
like to do is open my hips so the knees
don't come in. I open my hips. The open
hip position. When the knees come in and
the legs go straight, the the butt goes
back too far and it's inefficient. When
we open our hips, it allows us to keep
our hips closer to the line of force,
which is the bar path, and have a more
upright torso angle. I'm not saying you
need to be upright. There needs to be
some type of forward torso lean to get
our strong hips involved. It's not
completely upright. That's our, you
know, stiletto squats. That's our quad
builder. This isn't about building
quads. This is about using my body as a
unit to shift the heaviest load. So
there is some forward torso lean but you
don't want to excessively like when the
feet are close and the knees come in
like this your hips have to come back to
get depth. So this is why it's more
efficient to have an open hip
stance. Okay. So that's what I like to
do with my feet. Grab the floor. Screw
my feet into the floor. Open hips. And I
don't think of some people give the cue
sit back like you're sitting back onto a
chair. I don't. I think if you focus on
sitting back, the first thing that
happens when you sit back is your torso
tips forward. When you have triple body
weight in your back, you don't want your
torso to tip forward. You want to
balance. So, it's not about being
upright. It's about balancing so that
the center of the bar, the center of
mass, which is the bar path, the collar
of the bar, needs to align with your
midoot. So, when I get to the bottom, if
I'm tipping forward, like I don't want
that barbell coming forward. I need to
keep it aligned with the center of my
base of support. That's the strongest,
most efficient position. So, those are
the things that I like to think about.
Stance, screw the feet into the floor,
look straight ahead,
brace, and then guide that weight down
so that the bar path is in line with my
midoot. And then stand with intent. And
that's how you squat. All right, next
up, I'm just going to keep on adding
weight. And now, I like to kind of
switch on a little bit. I'm going to
talk a little bit less. Hope you don't
mind. And that's why I gave you a lot of
instruction for these warm-up weights.
But now, it's time to switch on. I'll
see you at my top set 120.
[Applause]
How do you feel? That was my first set.
So, every set I've had my hand flat on
the bar on the plate. That was my first
set where I I put my hand on the
barbell. So, this is me. This is how I
stretch and warm my shoulders up for
each consecutive set. And that was
freaking tight. And something that
happens to me at the end of my squats is
my my hand feels like I've just punched
a brick wall. And that's because I'm
like it's so tight up against there,
those three fingers like that and it's
twisting into my knuckles. So the first
time I did it, I didn't really feel
anything until the next day. And now
because I've been squatting heavy every
week, it's now sore. So that's the first
set. I've got to bring it in closer so
I'm not wedging it against the edge. So
my knuckles
hurt. What a weird thing that from
squatting my knuckles hurt, my shoulders
hurt, my elbows hurt. This is all result
of having tight shoulders. Damn. Anyway,
you know, I wish I could say that I know
much about how my legs feel right now. I
don't because all my attention is going
to my shoulder tightness and my upper
body. It's easy enough for my legs. I
wish that I could just focus purely on
the squat. But that's why, you know, I
take my time to warm up to get
everything welloiled so that by the time
I'm up to my top set, I don't have to
think. I just go next set.
[Applause]
[__] you.
[Music]
pretty good
movement. So,
so I'll tell you what I'm doing. It's
like it's not good. So, my first thing
that you see me do is tip forward. So,
that's me avoiding using my knees cuz my
hips are stronger, right? So, I tip
forward to get off my knees and then at
the bottom. So I go back and then knees
forward. So I'm kind of that's a leakage
of energy. I just want it to be straight
down and straight up, right? So I'm
going hips back and then I bring my hips
forward cuz I know that's the bottom
position that I want to be in. But I
want to get from A to B in one straight
line rather than that's what I'm doing
currently. The reason I'm doing that is
because my left knee I I tore my
meniscus about a year ago and it was
very problematic for a while. So the
recovery was slow and a part of the
recovery is psychological. So now even
now there's no pain in the meniscus but
I want to avoid it. It's like I've got
this fear of using that area and that's
that's part of the mental recovery. So
that's causing a bad pattern. I'm
avoiding that
pain by moving away from it. Right? But
what I need to do is lean into it. Not
purposely because I want to use more
knees. I want to use more knees than
what I'm doing currently. It's not about
using more knees and hips. It's about
using a combination of as much knees and
as much hips and evenly distributing the
load across your entire body. So, if
it's too much knees and not enough hips,
then it's weaker. Like, I'm telling you
what not to do, which is don't start by
leaning the hips back. And that's
exactly what I'm doing. And I believe
that that's weaker because it's throwing
my hips back is increasing. So, let's
just say, look at this tripod. Let's
just say that's the bar path that it
should be. I'll I'll make it even here.
You know, the more upright I am, so look
at my elbow, that's my hips. The more
upright I am, this is the moment arm,
which is the distance between the line
of force and the main acting joint. But
if I tip forward
further, look at the moment arm. Now,
extra large moment arm. To make that
more efficient, I want to if I open my
hips, it allows me to bring my hips
closer to the bar and I push my knees
outwards, right, and and stay upright.
there's a more efficient lever because
the moment arm is shorter arm right
currently when I push my hips back and
any one of you who pushes your hips back
you're not a bad person you know I'm
doing it but I'm trying not to keep the
moment arms as short as possible that's
how we maintain efficiency that's why
you see a lot of good powerlifters with
a wide stance this is what they're doing
so that's the line of force I've got a
very short moment arm at my knee joint
very short moment arm at my hip joint
it's also the same rules with a sumo
deadlift by sumo deadlifterss are
typically able to shift heavier loads
than conventional deadlifters because
it's a more efficient movement. I know
it's going to spark up a bit of
debate. I'm going to give you my
opinion. Sumo deadlift is more technical
and it's a harder skill to learn but
it's more efficient. So when people say
why are people able to do more their
conventional cuz they haven't learned
the skill of sumo but if they did it's a
more efficient lever. I haven't learned
the skill of sumo. I want to I spent
more time on my conventional, but
anyway, that's why it's a more efficient
lever because the hips are closer to the
barbell. There's shorter moment arms.
It's a more efficient lever. So, I'm
going to apply that principle here,
right? And this is also why I like to
come down slow, not just drop. I want to
focus on the bar path that I want to be
in. I want to control that bar path and
be efficient. Precision beats power. I
learned that from Conor McGregor when he
knocked out Jose Aldo. Precision beats
power. Timing beats speed. Slow is
smooth. Smooth is fast. Next up, 220.
So, it goes 220, then 245, then 270. So,
I've got three sets
left. I'm going to go one notch tighter
with my belt. Right. So, that was all on
the looser setting. One notch tighter.
And then the next one, a notch tighter
again. Okay, let's go.
[Applause]
[Music]
You know, it felt shaky, but actually
felt quite strong.
Yeah, I was off center. Yeah, I felt
that straight from the unrackck. And
this is um if you go back to my video
where I squatted 300, you'll see I had
Alex spotting me and he aligned me and I
said, "Thank you for doing that. Every
week I come in and I'm off center."
Anyway, I've just gotten used to doing
that. I'm slightly off center. So,
typically that's what I like to get a
back spotter to do is just to line me.
Huh?
No, it's going to throw me off. Yeah.
Just I'll figure it out. I'll figure it
out. It's been 4 minutes rest. So, two
more
minutes.
Okay.
Okay. Come
[Applause]
on. Come
on. Come on. Come on.
Good effort.
Good
effort. Good effort, she
reckons. Thank you. What a compliment
from the French French
woman. All right.
It didn't record. Just code. Who cares
if it didn't? I got three. How funny.
You know what I mean? Who am I trying to
prank here? It's my joke, bro. Who am I
trying to prank here? He's got 270. Did
he get depth? Yes. Did he pause? Yeah.
Better than last week's 260. Did he get
depth seven rep? Yeah, he did. Look, I'm
going to be honest with
you. The pauses are little bit fast.
But I do come to a complete stop. That's
the point. That's the point. Now, I'll
tell you now. Last week, you weren't
here mostly. I was here by myself and I
did 260 for a double. And I would say it
was as hard as that. It wasn't easier
because it was 10 kg less. So,
yesterday, I mean, last week I was
weaker. this
week maybe because Musty was here and S
with Shaza little bit of extra help
moral support but 270 paused two reps I
will do like I feel like that session is
a little bit incomplete normally last
week I did two sets of eight stiletto
squats on 170 kg this week you know plus
hamstring curls this week I want to
reduce volume a little bit and the
reason why I want to do that is my
reduction in volume is so that I can
have some energy for a heavy deadlift on
Saturday. Yeah. The plan is for
Saturday, I'm going to attempt a 310.
310. Is that a good number? I mean,
objectively, it's pretty good. It's more
than three times body weight. 100 kilos.
So, 300 is triple. So, I'm due for two
sets of one, not 300, but I want it to
be comfortable. But I don't want to do
three sets of one. Sorry, two sets of
one. I want to do 310, but just one set
of one. And if I come in and I get one
set of one on 310, that's kind of like,
you know, the most I've deadlifted for
many years. Deadlift is my weakest lift.
So 310 is not bad, but comparative to
where my squat is at, you know, I
squatted 300 kg a couple of weeks ago,
you know. So arguably my squat and
deadlift are on par. My bench press, you
know, I'll be going for a 210, which is,
you know, more than double body weight
bench press, which is really, really
good. So my strongest lifts are
definitely my squat and my bench press.
And my deadlift lets me
down at that level. So typically, I
mean, last time I was in competition,
you know, my squat is the strongest, my
bench press was the strongest, my
deadlift let me down a lot. And in
competition, I did 330 kg at the 110
class 375 squat. But that's with knee
wraps. So this is another thing that
people ask a lot is, "Oh, how is your
squat so much more than your deadlift?"
Well, this is sleeves now. So sleeves,
I'd say they're pretty close. Wrapped, I
get 50 kg out of my wraps. So you can't
compare wrapped squat with a deadlift
because the wraps, they're equipment.
But anyway, yeah, that's my plan. Now,
I'm going to take these off. So these
are the heavy duty sleeves. I'm going to
take those off and I'll put the light
sleeves on and I'm going to do just a
little bit of accessory work just so
these skinny legs get some stimulation.
It's my um my thing. I don't really
squint. I don't really um skip leg day
ever. I build muscle very easily on my
upper body, not so easily on my legs. I
got a very strong squat, but my leg
development doesn't match. But that's
okay. That's okay. It's not a beauty
pageant. It's a competition to see who
can lift the
most. I'm giving you guys more trade
secrets. So, this is what we're doing
now. This is what we've decided. I'm
going to make a Instagram video out of
this. I'm a content creator on
Instagram. If you didn't know, now you
do. And you should follow me, Australian
Strength Coach. And I'll tell you what
we're doing. I've got my videographer
who's standing behind the camera on the
other end is going to clip for me. Um,
special effects where I go, so I just
warmed up. Uh, we won't show it on this
because we didn't record it on that
camera, but I'm going to go walking out.
One plate, boom. And then we add a
plate, two plate, boom, three plate,
boom, four, five, six, not six, five
plates to the top set. So that's going
to be my special effects. Um, that's for
the Instagram and you guys get to see
how I do it. So you saw that this is
what I'm doing now and that's what I had
to do. I had to redo the video. So
that's what you're going to see.
Unfortunately, I've got my SPD sleeves
on, which are different to what I use in
my top set, and I'm not going to be able
to put those ones on again because I'm
sweaty and sticky, and these ones are
very uncomfortable and tight and just
too hard to put on and off. So, anyway,
whatever. So, those are the finer
details that you may or may not notice
in my Instagram video, but I've just
done one. So, the reason why we did
that, look at this. This one's fixed. So
that's on the tripod and that's there
from start to finish except it wasn't
quite start to finish. Musty said he
only got it from three plates onwards.
So therefore I have to re-record the
first plate and the second plate which
is easy. So I've already done one plate.
Now I'm going to do two plates. Got to
make it look the same, you know? Got to
make it look realistic like this is my
second set of the day.
This doesn't matter because this isn't
going to be included. So, you see the
walk out on the first video only. I
cooled down and I'm tight now in my
shoulders. Oh, man. All right. Ready?
Game face on. Let's be serious, guys.
Ready. This isn't included. So, it's
just the down and up. And that's my
session, guys. So, this is the next
thing that I did. I made the decision
while I was doing all of that that I'm
not doing any more squats after this.
That's my D load. One top set of squats.
I'm going to do some hamstring curls.
And that's the end of my session. What a
lovely day. This is a fun way to de lo.
So, it's a great del lo strategy. You
guys should try it. It's where you go,
you know, if you do a four-week program
like me, the fourth week is the heaviest
week and you have the volume. So, how
does that look for you? Many forms. You
could literally half the amount of sets
that you have to do in the whole
program. Or something I like to do is
just do your top set and then get out of
there. And that's what I'm going to be
doing today. And the reason I'm doing
that is to save energy so that I can
have another heavy deadlift session. Um,
today's Wednesday, that's going to be
Saturday. So, two days of well, I'll
bench on Friday, but you know, two days
of light work and then let's try and do
310 kg on Saturday. Are you guys going
to join me? I hope you do. Well, it's
not posted in real time. We'll probably
post that video next week sometime. But
anyway, I hope you enjoyed today's
session. All the trade secrets given to
you. Hey guys, I'm not asking you for
anything in return, right? Just follow
the stuff that I do. This is the stuff
that took me 20 years to learn. There
are many techniques, many different body
shapes and sizes and how these
techniques present from lifter to
lifter. There are differences, right?
There's no such thing as a
one-sizefits-all approach. But these are
the techniques that I've learned from
the best. I've used them very
successfully. I've squatted 400 kg with
this. So, I'm a pretty good squatter and
I'm giving you the exact techniques that
I use very successfully. And if you want
to use the same things, I promise you,
you'll do well. Took me so many years to
learn how to do this. And it's yours for
free. You're welcome. Anyhow, well, at
least maybe give me a subscribe. Is it a
follow? Subscribe. Do that. Anyhow,
guys, until next time. See you.